<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="terminology">
 <title id="x-1">Terminology</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-3">The most primitive datatype in Persistent is the <codeph id="x-4">PersistValue</codeph>. This represents
   any raw data that can appear within the database, such as a number, a date, or a string. Of
   course, sometimes you'll have some more user-friendly datatypes you want to store, like HTML. For
   that, we have the <codeph id="x-5">PersistField</codeph> class. Internally, a
    <codeph id="x-6">PersistField</codeph> expresses itself to the database in terms of a
    <codeph id="x-7">PersistValue</codeph>.</p>
  <p id="x-8">All of this is very nice, but we will want to combine different fields together into a
   larger picture. For this, we have a <codeph id="x-9">PersistEntity</codeph>, which is basically a
   collection of <codeph id="x-10">PersistField</codeph>s. And finally, we have a <codeph id="x-11">PersistBackend</codeph> that describes how to create, read, update and delete these
   entities.</p>
  <p id="x-12">As a practical example, consider storing a person in a database. We want to store the
   person's name, birthday, and a profile image (a PNG file). We create a new entity <codeph id="x-13">Person</codeph> with three fields: a <codeph id="x-14">Text</codeph>, a <codeph id="x-15">Day</codeph> and a <codeph id="x-16">PNG</codeph>. Each of those get stored in the
   database using a different <codeph id="x-17">PersistValue</codeph> constructor: <codeph id="x-18">PersistText</codeph>, <codeph id="x-19">PersistDay</codeph> and <codeph id="x-20">PersistByteString</codeph>, respectively.</p>
  <p id="x-21">There is nothing surprising about the first two mappings, but the last one is
   interesting. There is no specific constructor for storing PNG content in a database, so instead
   we use a more generic type (a ByteString, which is just a sequence of bytes). We could use the
   same mechanism to store other types of arbitrary data.</p>
  <note id="x-22">The commonly held best practice for storing images is to keep the data on the
   filesystem and just keep a path to the image in the database. We do not advocate against using
   that approach, but are rather using database-stored images as an illustrative example.</note>
  <p id="x-23">How is all this represented in the database? Consider SQL as an example: the <codeph id="x-24">Person</codeph> entity becomes a table with three columns (name, birthday, and
   picture). Each field is stored as a different SQL type: <codeph id="x-25">Text</codeph> becomes a
    <codeph id="x-26">VARCHAR</codeph>, <codeph id="x-27">Day</codeph> becomes a <codeph id="x-28">Date</codeph> and <codeph id="x-29">PNG</codeph> becomes a <codeph id="x-30">BLOB</codeph> (or
    <codeph id="x-31">BYTEA</codeph>).</p>
  <p id="x-32">The story for MongoDB is very similar. <codeph id="x-33">Person</codeph> becomes its own
    <term id="x-34">document</term>, and its three fields each become a MongoDB <term id="x-35">field</term>. There is
   no need for data types or creation of a schema in MongoDB.</p>
  <simpletable id="simpletable_zxa_klv_le">
   <sthead id="x-36">
    <stentry id="x-37">Persistent</stentry>
    <stentry id="x-38">SQL</stentry>
    <stentry id="x-39">MongoDB</stentry>
   </sthead>
   <strow id="x-40">
    <stentry id="x-41">PersistEntity</stentry>
    <stentry id="x-42">Table</stentry>
    <stentry id="x-43">Document</stentry>
   </strow>
   <strow id="x-44">
    <stentry id="x-45">PersistField</stentry>
    <stentry id="x-46">Column</stentry>
    <stentry id="x-47">Field</stentry>
   </strow>
   <strow id="x-48">
    <stentry id="x-49">PersistValue</stentry>
    <stentry id="x-50">Column type </stentry>
    <stentry id="x-51"><i id="x-52">N/A</i></stentry>
   </strow>
  </simpletable>
 </conbody>
</concept>
