<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="type-safe-urls">
 <title id="x-1">Type-safe URLs</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-3">This approach to routing gives birth to one of Yesod's most powerful features:
   type-safe URLs. Instead of just splicing together pieces of text to refer to a route, every route
   in your application can be represented by a Haskell value. This immediately eliminates a large
   number of 404 not found errors: it is simply not possible to produce an invalid URL.</p>
  <note id="x-4">It is still possible to produce a 404 URL, such as by referring to a blog post that
   does not exist. However, all URLs will be formed correctly.</note>
  <p id="x-5">So how does this magic work? Each site has a route datatype, and each resource pattern gets its
   own constructor. In our previous example, we would get something that looks like:</p>
  <codeblock id="x-6" outputclass="haskell">data MySiteRoute = HomepageR
                 | AddEntryR
                 | EntryR EntryId</codeblock>
  <p id="x-7">If you want to link to the homepage, you use <codeph id="x-8">HomepageR</codeph>. To link to a specific
   entry, you would use the <codeph id="x-9">EntryR</codeph> constructor with an <codeph id="x-10">EntryId</codeph>
   parameter. For example, to create a new entry and redirect to it, you could write:</p>
  <codeblock id="x-11" outputclass="haskell">entryId &lt;- insert (Entry "My Entry" "Some content")
redirect RedirectTemporary (EntryR entryId)</codeblock>
  <p id="x-12">Hamlet, Lucius and Julius all include built-in support for these type-safe URLs.
   Inside a Hamlet template, you can easily create a link to the add entry page:</p>
  <codeblock id="x-13" outputclass="hamlet">&lt;a href=@{AddEntryR}&gt;Create a new entry.</codeblock>
  <p id="x-14">The best part? Just like Persistent entities, the compiler will keep you honest. If you change
   any of your routes (e.g., you want to include the year and month in your entry routes), Yesod
   will force you to update every single reference throughout your codebase.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
