<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conceptId">
 <title id="x-1">Datatypes</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-3">One of the biggest advantages of Haskell - and one of the things we make the most use of in
   Yesod - is strong static typing. Before we begin to write the code for how to solve something, we
   need to think about what the data will look like. WAI is a perfect example of this paradigm. The
   core concept we want to express is that of an application. An application's most basic expression
   is a function that takes a request and returns a response. In Haskell lingo:
   <codeblock id="x-4">type Application = Request -&gt; Response</codeblock></p>
  <p id="x-5">This just raises the question: what do Request and Response look like? A Request has a
   number of pieces of information, but the most basic are the requested path, query string, request
   headers, and request body. And a Response has just three components: a status code, response
   headers and response body.</p>
  <p id="x-6">How do we represent something like a query string? Haskell keeps a strict separation between
   binary and textual data. The former is represented by ByteString, the latter by Text. Both are
   highly optimized datatypes that provide a high level, safe API. In the case of query string we
   store the raw bytes transferred over the wire as a ByteString and the parsed, decoded values as
   Text. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
