<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="introduction">
 <title id="x-1">Introduction</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-3">Yesod is a web framework written in the Haskell programming language. While many
   popular web frameworks exploit the dynamic nature of their host languages, Yesod exploits the static nature of Haskell to produce safer, faster code.</p>
  <p id="x-11">Development began about two years ago, and has been going strong ever since. Yesod cut its
   teeth on real life projects, with all of its initial features borne out of an actual, real life
   need. At first, development was almost entirely a one-man show. After about a year of development, the community efforts kicked
   in, and Yesod has since blossomed into a thriving open-source project.</p>
  <p id="x-4">During the embryonic phase, when Yesod was incredibly ephemeral and ill-defined, it
   would have been counter-productive to try and get a team to work on it. By the time it stabilized
   enough to be useful to others, it was the right time to find out the downsides to some of the
   decisions that had been made. Since then, we have made major changes to the user-facing API to
   make it more useful, and are quickly solidifying a 1.0 release.</p>
  <p id="x-5">The question you may ask is: why another web framework? Let's instead redirect to a
   different question: why use Haskell? It seems that most of the world is happy with one of two
   styles of language:</p>
  <ul id="ul_abba76f6-38db-46aa-8bd9-4699289ea8d4">
   <li id="x-6">Statically typed languages, like Java, C# and C++. These languages provide speed and type
    safety, but are more cumbersome to program with.</li>
   <li id="x-7">Dynamically typed languages, like Ruby and Python. These languages greatly increase
    productivity (at least in the short run), but run slowly and have very little support from the
    compiler to ensure correctness. (The solution to this last point is unit testing. We'll get to
    that later.)</li>
  </ul>
  <p id="x-8">This is a false dichotomy. There's no reason why statically typed languages need to be
   so clumsy. Haskell is able to capture a huge amount of the expressivity of Ruby and Python, while
   remaining a strongly typed language. In fact, Haskell's type system catches many more bugs than
   Java and its ilk. Null pointer exceptions are completely eliminated; immutable data structures
   simplify reasoning about your code and simplify parallel and concurrent programming.</p>
  <p id="x-9">So why Haskell? It is an efficient, developer-friendly language which provides many
   compile-time checks of program correctness.</p>
  <p id="x-10">The goal of Yesod is to extend Haskell's strengths into web development. Yesod
   strives to make your code as concise as possible. As much as possible, every line of your code is
   checked for correctness at compile time. Instead of requiring large libraries of unit tests to
   test basic properties, the compiler does it all for you. Under the surface, Yesod uses as many
   advanced performance techniques as we can muster to make your high-level code fly.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
