<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conceptId">
 <title id="x-1">Lessons Learned</title>
 <conbody id="x-2">
  <p id="x-3">Yesod has been a very rewarding project to work on. It has given me an opportunity to work on a
   large system with a diverse group of developers. One of the things that has truly shocked me is
   how different the end product has become versus what I had originally intended. I started off
   Yesod by creating a list of goals. Very few of the main features we currently tout in Yesod are
   in that list, and a good portion of that list is no longer something I plan to implement. The
   first lesson is:</p>
  <lq id="x-4">You will have a better idea of the system you need after you start working on it. Do not tie
   yourself down to your initial ideas.</lq>
  <p id="x-5">As this was my first major piece of Haskell code, I've learnt a lot about the language during
   Yesod's development. I'm sure others can relate to the feeling of "How did I ever write code like
   this?" Even though that initial code was not of the same caliber as the code we have in Yesod at
   this point, it was solid enough to kick-start the project. The second lesson is:</p>
  <lq id="x-6">Don't be deterred due to supposed lack of mastery of the tools at hand. Write the best code
   you can, and keep improving it.</lq>
  <p id="x-7">One of the most difficult steps in Yesod's development was moving from a single-person team-
   me- to collaborating with others. It started off simply with merging pull requests on Github, and
   eventually moved to having a number of core maintainers. I had established some of my own
   development patterns, which were nowhere explained or documented. As a result, contributors found
   it difficult to pull my latest unreleased changes and play around with them. This hindered others
   both from contributing and testing.</p>
  <p id="x-8">When Greg Weber came aboard as another lead on Yesod, he put in place a lot of the coding
   standards that were sorely lacking. To compound the problems, there were some inherent
   difficulties playing with the Haskell development toolchain, specifically dealing with Yesod's
   large number of packages. One of the goals of the entire Yesod team has since been to create
   standard scripts and tools to automate building. Many of these tools are making their way back
   into the general Haskell community. The final lesson is:</p>
  <lq id="x-9">Consider early on how to make your project approachable for others.</lq>
  <!--FIXME: review this once more-->
 </conbody>
</concept>
